a very good evening Hamas leaders have
said they have agreed to a ceasefire
proposal put forward by Egypt and Qatar
the new spark celebration in Gaza but it
may be premature the Israelis are saying
tonight the deal is not acceptable
because they had agreed with the
Americans as far back as February a deal
that has now been softened what we know
about this proposal is that it sets out
a three-stage process each lasting 42
days the first would lead to a release
of 33 hostages in return for Palestinian
prisoners and a partial isra Israeli
withdrawal the second would lead to the
release of all other living hostages
there were thought to be about 128 still
alive and the third phase would see a
return of the bodies the Israeli defense
minister said this morning that the
decision to expand the assault on Rafa
had been taken because Hamas had
rejected their ceasefire terms so this
has come as a surprise to the Israeli
government let's go then live to
Jerusalem our security correspondent
Frank Gardner is there bring us up to
speed if you would Frank on the action
there in
Jerusalem Christian things are moving
incredibly fast here almost every minute
there is a new update and the latest I
should tell you is that a senior
Palestinian official unnamed uh has told
our correspondent one of my colleagues
that one of the things under
consideration and this is quite
extraordinary is that Hamas is even
considering a long-term cation of
hostilities in other words giving up the
arms struggle now they haven't committed
to that yet and it would they would need
to see this deal go through and for the
truce to work so there's an awful lot
that could go wrong before then but um
these are quite momentous times here so
although I've been urging people to kind
of temper things you know there's an
awful lot that could go wrong there are
hardliners in the Israeli cabinet who
don't want any kind of a deal with Hamas
who simply want to see a hard Israeli
military push into Rafa that eliminates
Hamas once and for all in their eyes
there are others including down the road
from here protesters who are lying down
in the street demanding a deal a
ceasefire deal to get the hostages home
now the latest version of this deal as
we understand it is that it's going to
come in two phases and the first phase
um would see after 11 days a partial
withdrawal of Israeli forces um there
would be release of the remaining female
Israeli soldiers military people who are
in captivity and I should just correct
something that was in your queue earlier
it's not unfortunately 128 still alive
in Gaza it's of 128 it's believed around
34 are probably dead so we're talking
about 90 plus hostages still thought to
be alive in Gaza somewhere held by Hamas
and or its associates so so for each one
of those it's complicated process this
so bear with me for each one of those
female Israeli soldiers who were
released um there would be 50 uh
Palestinian prisoners released women
from Israeli jails including some with
life sentences um and this is really
about confidence building it's a
stepbystep process um and the ultimate
aim is to have a sustained period of
calm and no hostilities now that's a
heck of a big ass because um there will
be enormous suspicion here in Israel
that Hamas or Palestinian Islamic Jihad
or any other group isn't going to stick
to this that there's going to be Rockets
lobbed across the border and then Israel
will say right the whole thing is off so
there's an awful lot that could go wrong
but the prize is there now out in the
distance at the top of the hill people
have just got to March up that hill to
get to it just quickly Frank is there
anything in the terms that have been
agreed and as you say some of the detail
is is quite difficult to get our heads
around at this this point but is there
anything you've heard there that the
Israelis weren't
expecting yes I mean one of the uh
things I should add is that um what's
being talked about from the Palestinian
side is an end to the blockade in Gaza
now that could be something that if that
means uh demanding free passage for
Palestinians to go in and out of Gaza to
Israel and that's that's not clear if it
necessarily does entail that but if it's
that there's no way I can see a
Netanyahu government agreeing to that
because they have kettled everybody into
Gaza Strip they say for security reasons
in the past to stop suicide bombers who
have come through that border and blown
themselves up at bus stations in Tel
Aviv but the people of Gaza live in
intolerable condition
you know it's it's the it's been called
the O biggest open air prison in the
world and it's an unsustainable
situation in the long term Frank Gardner
in Jerusalem thank you very much indeed
for that well after the news broke and
shortly after the Israelis had rejected
the agreement the US Department of State
spokesperson Matthew Miller was asked
what happens next here's what he had to
say so I can confirm that Hamas has
issued a response we are reviewing that
response Now And discussing it with our
partners in the region as you know
director Burns is in the region working
on this in real time uh we will be
discussing this uh response with our our
partners uh over the coming hours we
continue to believe that a hostage deal
is in the best interest of the Israeli
people it's in the best interest of the
Palestinian people it would bring an
immediate ceasefire it would allow uh
increased movement of humanitarian
assistance and so we're going to
continue to work to try to reach one